Core JAVA/J2EE
== and equals difference
Different Out of memory errors?When will you get it?How to resolve?
If you want to maintain insertion order in a set which will you use?
What is Servlet?What is Jsp?Diffrences?
Servlet,JSP life cycle,init service,destroy methods?Can we call destroy in init?What will happen?
How do you invoke Garbage collector manually?What will happen?
What is final,finalize,finally?
Checked Exceptions vs Unchecked Exceptions?
How do you handle exceptions?throw vs throws?
What are the different exceptions on String?
Parent class throws FileNotFoundException.Can child class throws IOException?Why?(IOException is a super-class of FileNotFoundException)
Multi threading Deadlock situation,How to resolve?
wait vs notify?
Thread life cycle?
Thread run method vs Start method?What happen if you call Thread.run()?
Why wait,notify  are in Object class instead of Thread?
Threads time slicing?
What is Serialization?
Program to eliminate duplicates  from given list(without using Set)
What is Transient Variable?How do you store transient variable in DB without Serialization?
How do you implement your own Serialization?
What is Serial UID?When it will be used?
What are the JVM memory areas?
What is static keyword?On Which we can use static keyword like block,class,variable,method?
What is synchronized?Can we use it before class?
Static method disadvantages?
When static variables are initialized?
What is Immuatblity?How to you write a own immutable class?
Where String Objects are stored with new String and literals?(Heap/Stack)
Equals and Hashcode?What happen if you override equlas and if you won't override hashcode?
How Hashmap works?
Different collections.When will you use which collection?
what are the container classes?
How many ways you can create Object?
What is Cloning?Shallow cloning ,Deep cloning?
Methods in Object Class?
JDBC Connection,datasouces,Syntax to get DB connection,Explain how it works?
Connection pooling.How it behaves?How it will close?How you will get a Connection?how to get/close connection using Dynamic proxies etc..
Socket time out?
Design patterns ?

Data Structures?
How do you implement Hashmap?
Stack implementation?
Queue implementation?Enqueue,Dequeue methods implementation? 
If you want to add or delete element from same end which Data Structure you use?
What are different Sorting algorithms?Algorithm for Quick Sort?

Class diagrams for some problems..


Programs/Algorithms?
Program to eliminate duplicates  from given list(without using Set)
Given a String I am Avinash.Print Avinash am I?
Program to identify Pythogorous Triplets from a given numbers set(like 3,4,5  6,8,10  5 square=3 square+4square)
Given a csv file with Duplicate employee IDs.Read the file and eliminate duplicate employees and insert into employee Table program
Restrict the TEXT field to eliminate cross side scripting(use java/javascript)
Some Cities are connected through roads.Given city names ,Distance between the cities.We can go from one city to another city with a maximum of one stop.
How do you store the data?How to you calculate the minimum distance has to be travelled?
Given a array with both positives and negatives numbers.Retreive sub array which gives maximum sum.Without Exchanging the numbers?
Given a railway Track,Train speeds,Safety Distance between Trains,Train length.How do you calculate maximum number of Trains that 
Towers of Hanoi Program?


Spring

What is Spring IOC,Dependency Injection?
What is Singleton ,Prototype?
Explain Spring Transactions?
What are the the Spring Transaction Propagation Types?
How do you create datasource in Spring?

Hibernate
What is ORM?Advantages?
What is Cascade?Different Cascade types?
save,saveOrUpdate,merge difference?
How to detach object?How to reattach?
one to one,many to one,many to many mappings?How many Tables involved?



SQL
Given assembly like Car,Lorry etc.Car has 4 doors,2 head lights,4 wheels,1 steering,1 accelerator,1 engine etc.Head light has 1 glass,1 bulb like that sub assembly.
It should be extensible.DB Design and class diagram.Which collections you Use?
Ques:Input assembly name and component.Calculate number of components that has to be used Program?
Given prices Calculate price to build the assembly?
espncricinfo cricket scores.ball by ball scores,commentry,venues,individual scores,wickets,won by how many runs,Player highest scores,Team scores etc.. DB design
Based on the DB design some questions.How many runs Mathew hayden has scored in akthar bowling in Adelide on respective Date?
and some other ques Based on the Design
railway reservation System DB Design.If a person book a ticket How do you implement DB Logic?
Teachers teaches subjects.Data is stored in Table.Query to retrieve the Teacher names who Teaches both English and maths?
Pharmacy shop.Drugs,Stocks,Prices etc.DB design.Highest sold drug,2nd highest sold Drug
What are the different Joins .Explain?
Given a employee Table.table contains employee id,employee name,manager ID.query to get employee name and manager name only for non-managers 
Primary key vs surrogant key?
Difference between left join vs right outer join?
2nd Highest in a row?
DDL ,DML vs DCL?


JMS/WebServices
JMS vs web services
xsd vs wsdl?
Soap vs Rest Differences?
Rest advantages?
Soap wsdl?
Security in web services?
How you have implemented in your project?



